Financial Services (Jersey) Law 1998
Code of Practice
For Trust Company Business
Effective from: 1 January 2008
Last Revised: 1 January 2021Code of Practice for Trust Company Business
The Principles

1 A registered person must conduct its business with
integrity.

1.1 Without limiting the scope of the above principle, a registered person must not:

1.1.1 Act or refrain from acting; or

1.1.2 Contract or have any other arrangement, 

So as to avoid, or seek to avoid, any regulatory responsibilities it may have under the Code and the full legal consequences of not following them unless the Code expressly permits any such avoidance.

2 A registered person must have the highest regard for
the interests of its customers.

2.1 A registered person must act with due skill, care and diligence to fulfil the responsibilities that it has undertaken.

2.2 Where a registered person is responsible for exercising discretion for or in relation to its
customers, it must take all reasonable steps to obtain sufficient information in order to
exercise its discretion or other powers in a proper manner.

2.3 A registered person must only exercise its power or discretion for a proper purpose and must
be able to evidence, in writing, any decision made.

2.4 A registered person must ensure that adequate procedures are implemented to either: avoid
any conflict of interest arising or, where conflicts arise, keep adequate records of such
conflicts and address them by: disclosure; applying internal rules of confidentiality; declining
to act; or otherwise as appropriate.

2.5 A registered person must transact its business (including the establishing, transfer or closing
of business relationships with its customers) in an expeditious manner where appropriate.

2.6 Any delegation of duties or powers, whether by power of attorney, formal agreement or
otherwise, must only be entered into with an appropriate person for a proper purpose. The
registered person must:

2.6.1 Ensure any delegation is for a specific purpose;

2.6.2 Where the delegation is irrevocable, include within the documentation either an
expiry date, or a statement that the delegation will expire given specific
circumstance(s) or action(s);

2.6.3 Where the delegation is revocable, include within the documentation an expiry
date or a requirement that the relationship with the appropriate person is formally
reviewed on a periodic basis;

2.6.4 Monitor the application of the power of attorney, formal agreement or other
arrangement; and

2.6.5 Ensure that appropriate due diligence has been carried out on the delegatee.

2.7 A registered person must ensure that adequate procedures are implemented to ensure that
detailed robust reviews are conducted at appropriate intervals in respect of the trust
company business services, which it provides to its customers.

3 A registered person must organise and control its
affairs effectively for the proper performance of its
business activities and be able to demonstrate the
existence of adequate risk management systems.

3.1 Corporate governance

3.1.1 A registered person must operate an effective corporate governance system that
must include the following key elements:

3.1.1.1 Satisfy the JFSC it has an adequate regulatory span of control,
at all times, appropriate to the nature of its business.

3.1.1.2 Where a registered person is entitled to control trust company
business assets, its regulatory span of control must comprise at
least three appropriately skilled and experienced individuals.

3.1.1.3 The relationship between the individuals must be such as to
ensure they can all exercise independent judgement without
duress or undue influence from one another.

3.1.1.4 Responsibilities must be apportioned among a registered
person’s directors/partners, key persons, senior managers and
employees in such a way that their individual responsibilities
are clear.

3.1.1.5 The business and affairs of a registered person must be
adequately monitored and controlled at senior management
and board level.

3.1.2 Specifically with respect to 3.1.1.1:

3.1.2.1 Those individuals comprising regulatory span of control must
be actively involved in the day-to-day management of the
business on a full time basis and be able to exercise executive
powers on behalf of the registered person. Normally the
individuals will be directors of the registered person however,
any directors that are not actively involved, “non-executives”,
or those who are not locally based, may not form part of the
regulatory span of control of a registered person.

3.1.2.2 As soon as a registered person becomes aware that the
regulatory span of control requirement will not be maintained
it must notify the JFSC in writing. In this respect where a
registered person has the minimum individuals comprising
regulatory span of control and one of those individuals is
absent from the business for a substantial period of time, the
registered person must contact the JFSC to discuss its proposed
arrangements such that during this period, the business is
managed and controlled by an appropriate number of locally
based individuals.

3.1.2.3 Where close family members are eligible to form part of the
regulatory span of control only one member may be counted.

3.1.3 A registered person must have documented procedures sufficient to facilitate the
effective management of risk by the board of directors and senior management.

3.1.4. All aspects of corporate governance arrangements must be subject to appropriately
regular review to ensure their continuing adequacy in light of the registered
person’s business activities and risk profiles, and include a periodic self-assessment,
or external assessment, of the board’s effectiveness.

Notes:
1. Corporate governance is the system by which an organisation is directed and
controlled. A corporate governance framework specifies the distribution of rights and
responsibilities among different participants in the organisation and sets out the rules
and procedures for making decisions. 
2. Risk management is an integral part of the corporate governance framework. In the context of Principle 3, “risk” refers to all the
risks that a registered person faces, or may face, as a business enterprise.

2. Article 74(1) of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 states:

“A director, in exercising the director’s powers and discharging the director’s duties,
shall –

(a) Act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company;

(b) Exercise the care, diligence and skill that a reasonably prudent person would
exercise in comparable circumstances.”

3. The requirements set out under paragraph 3.1.1 deal with both financial resources
and conduct of business issues referring as they do, to the management of the
business of the registered person itself. As such, this is not a provision that directly
governs, for instance, appropriate signatory arrangements for the execution of a
specific transaction or exercise of a particular discretion.

4. In rare circumstances, and where a registered person requires “six-eyes”, the JFSC may
permit the inclusion of an individual who is actively involved in the day-to-day
management of the business (a senior manager) when considering regulatory span of
control. In this scenario, the JFSC will consider the fitness and propriety of the senior
manager using the procedure established for considering principal persons and key
persons. For the purpose of regulatory span of control, the JFSC views the senior
manager as materially equivalent to a director and will hold them accountable for
their actions.

5.. For the purpose of 3.1.1.4, all individuals having up to date job descriptions may best
evidence apportionment of responsibilities. However, the terms of reference relating
to particular offices or committees, or Board resolutions, may also demonstrate
apportionment of responsibilities.

6. The JFSC would expect the board of directors and/or management board of a
registered person to, collectively, demonstrate appropriate qualifications, experience,
competency and a broad, complementary skill set relevant to the business. In this
respect reference to Table 4 Qualifications and Table 5 Qualifications as set out in the
Guidance Note: Professional Qualifications (Trust Company Business) (the TCB
professional qualifications guidance note) may be useful. 

7. For the purposes of 3.1.2.3 “close family” comprises spouses (including co-habitees),
civil partners, children, dependants, parents, brothers, and sisters.

8. With respect to 3.1.2.2, the JFSC considers a period in excess of four weeks to
constitute a substantial absence from the registered person.

3.2 Internal systems and controls

3.2.1 A registered person must:

3.2.1.1 Operate robust arrangements for meeting the standards and requirements of the regulatory framework, including:

3.2.1.1.1 Maintaining, and testing adherence to, policies and procedures covering the operation of the business;

3.2.1.1.2 The appointment of a Compliance Officer;

3.2.1.1.3 Establishing effective complaints handling systems;

3.2.1.1.4 Adequate supervision of direct and indirect employees;

3.2.1.1.5 Documented systems, controls and procedures governing sole, dual or multiple authorisations for handling both the registered person’s and trust company business assets, for reconciling movements in trust company business assets, and for guarding against involvement in financial crime (including the detection and prevention of money laundering); and

3.2.1.1.6 Ensuring that all transactions or decisions are appropriately authorised by persons with the requisite knowledge and experience to effect such transactions or make such decisions.

3.2.1.2 Keep adequate, orderly and up-to-date records which must include, but are not necessarily limited to:

3.2.1.2.1 Its business transactions;

3.2.1.2.2 Its financial position;

3.2.1.2.3 Its internal organisation;

3.2.1.2.4 Its risk management systems;

3.2.1.2.5 Its board or management minutes; and

3.2.1.2.6 The relationship between the legal persons/arrangements forming part of the group subject to registration under the FS(J)L.

3.2.1.3 Ensure that adequate business resumption, disaster recovery and other contingency arrangements are in place and tested at appropriate intervals.

3.2.1.4 Comply with all relevant anti-money laundering legislation and guidance to counter money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The legislation must be observed in conjunction with the standards set out in the relevant AML/CFT Handbook.

3.2.1.5 Have due regard to the principles of the sound business practices policyii document issued by the JFSC, irrespective of the jurisdiction in which the entity that it is providing services to was incorporated.

3.2.1.6 Comply with the JFSC’s policy on outsourcing as may be updated from time to time.

3.2.2 Where a registered person is providing services defined in Article 2(4)(a) of the FS(J)L (namely acting as a company formation agent, a partnership formation agent or a foundation formation agent under a registration for Class F trust company business), it must:

3.2.2.1  Understand, and document, the rationale for the formation of the company, partnership or foundation (as relevant); and

3.2.2.2 Comply with relevant statutory obligations arising as a result of forming companies, partnerships or foundations in Jersey and other jurisdictions. 

3.2.3 Where a registered person is providing services:

3.2.3.1 Defined in Article 2(4)(b) of the FS(J)L (namely acting or fulfilling the function of or arranging for another person to act as or fulfil the function of director or alternate director of a company under a registration for Class G trust company business): 
 
Or
Defined in Article 2(4)(c) of the FS(J)L (namely acting or fulfilling the function of or arranging for another person to act as or fulfil the function of a partner of a partnership under a registration for Class H trust company business): 

It must:

3.2.3.1.1 Where arranging for another to act, take reasonable steps to ensure that those acting understand their obligations under the relevant law;

3.2.3.1.2 Where a registered person, its officers or employees are acting themselves, ensure they are suitable, competent and understand their duties under the relevant laws and comply with
the requirements of the relevant laws, including the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, as amended;

3.2.3.1.3 Be able to demonstrate that reasonable care has been taken to have knowledge of the activities of the companies or partnerships for which it acts or arranges for another to act as director or partner, and any material changes thereto; 

3.2.3.1.4 Have adequate procedures to ensure that, where appropriate, relevant documentation is subject to legal review; and

3.2.3.1.5 Keep or satisfy itself that someone else is keeping accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the structures under administration.

3.2.4 Where a registered person is providing services defined in Article 2(4)(d) of the FS(J)L (namely acting as or fulfilling the function of or arranging for another person to act as or fulfil the function of a member of the council of a foundation under a registration for Class OA trust company business), it must:
 
3.2.4.1 Where arranging for another to act, take reasonable steps to ensure that those acting understand their obligations under the relevant law;

3.2.4.2 Where a registered person, its officers or employees are acting themselves, ensure that they are suitable, competent and understand their duties under the relevant laws and comply with the requirements of the relevant laws, including the Foundations (Jersey) Law 2009, as amended;

3.2.4.3 Be able to demonstrate that reasonable care has been taken to have knowledge of the activities of the foundations for which it acts or arranges for another to act and any additional changes thereto; and

3.2.4.4 Keep or (where permitted by legislation) satisfy itself that someone else is keeping accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain transactions and disclose with reasonable
accuracy the financial position of the foundation under administration.

3.2.5 Where a registered person is providing services defined in Article 2(4)(e) of the
FS(J)L (namely acting or arranging for another person to act as secretary, alternate,
assistant or deputy secretary of a company or a limited liability partnership under a
registration for Class I trust company business), it must:

3.2.5.1 Where arranging for another to act, take reasonable steps to ensure that those acting understand their obligations under the relevant law;

3.2.5.2 Where a registered person, its officers or employees are acting themselves, ensure they are suitable, competent and understand their duties under the relevant laws and comply with the requirements of the relevant laws including the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, as amended; and

3.2.5.3 Take reasonable steps to maintain adequate contact with the directors of the company.

3.2.6 Where a registered person is providing services defined in Article 2(4)(f) of the FS(J)L (namely providing a registered office or business address for a company, a partnership or a foundation under a registration for Class J trust company business), it must:

3.2.6.1  Be suitable, competent and understand its duties under, and comply with the requirements of, the laws of the countries in which the companies, the partnerships, or the foundations, for which it is acting are established;

3.2.6.2 Where holding correspondence (whether postal packets, electronic data or otherwise) for collection or forwarding:

3.2.6.2.1 Understand, and document, the rationale for the service
and agree written procedures; and

3.2.6.2.2 Open and retain copies of relevant correspondence received and details of:

(a) Any forwarding address; or

(b) If collected, the date collected, and the name and
address of the person collecting the correspondence;

3.2.6.3 Take reasonable steps to maintain adequate contact with the directors of the company or partners of a partnership, and in the case of a foundation where the trust company business
does not also provide a council member take reasonable steps to maintain adequate contact with the council members of the foundation.

3.2.7 Where a registered person is providing services defined in Article 2(4)(g) of the FS(J)L (namely providing an accommodation, correspondence or administrative address for a company, a partnership or a foundation or for any other person under a registration for Class K trust company business), it must:

3.2.7.1 Where holding correspondence (whether postal packets, electronic data or otherwise) for collection or forwarding:

3.2.7.1.1 Understand, and document, the rationale for the service and agree written procedures; and

3.2.7.1.2 Open and retain copies of relevant correspondence received and details of:

(a) Any forwarding address; or

(b) If collected, the date collected, and the name and address of the person collecting the correspondence.

3.2.8 Where a registered person is providing services defined in Article 2(4)(h) of the FS(J)L (namely acting as or fulfilling or arranging for another person to act as or fulfil the function of trustee of an express trust under a registration for Class L trust company business), it must:

3.2.8.1 Where arranging for another to act, take reasonable steps to ensure that those acting understand their obligations under the relevant law;

3.2.8.2 Where a registered person, its officers or employees are acting themselves, ensure they are suitable, competent and understand their duties under the relevant laws and comply with the requirements of the relevant laws, including the Trusts (Jersey) Law 1984, as amended;

3.2.8.3 Keep or satisfy itself that someone else is keeping accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the structures under administration; and

3.2.8.4 Understand, and document, the rationale for the establishment of the trust.

3.2.9 Where a registered person is providing services defined in Article 2(4)(i) of the FS(J)L (namely acting as or fulfilling or arranging for another person to act as shareholder or unit-holder as a nominee for another person under a registration for Class M trust company business), it must:

3.2.9.1 Where arranging for another to act, take reasonable steps to ensure that those acting understand their obligations under the relevant law;

3.2.9.2 Where a registered person, its officers or employees are acting themselves, ensure they are suitable, competent and understand their duties under the relevant laws and comply with the requirements of the relevant laws; and

3.2.9.3 Be able to evidence, in writing, the nature of the nominee agreement and the identity of the person for whom the registered person is acting as nominee. 

3.2.10 Where a registered person is acting as the manager of a managed trust company under a registration for Class N trust company business, it must:

3.2.10.1 Pay due regard to the risks that might arise from performing this role as part of its own corporate governance; and

3.2.10.2 Ensure that the managed trust company(ies) it manages, complies with all aspects of the regulatory framework in Jersey.

3.2.11 Where a registered person is carrying on Class O trust company business, it must
comply with paragraphs 3.2.2, 3.2.5, 3.2.6 and 3.2.9 above.

3.2.12 Where a registered person is looking to satisfy itself that someone else is keeping accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the structures under administration (3.2.3.1.5, 3.2.4.4 and 3.2.8.3) then in considering whether it is so satisfied the requirements of 3.7.6 must be taken into consideration in making a determination.

3.2.13 Where a registered person controls customer money it should implement an independent review of the controls over customer money on, at least, an annual basis:

3.2.13. The review shall verify the effectiveness of the registered person’s relevant controls over customer money with particular regard to those controls that prevent the:

3.2.13.1.1 Loss;

3.2.13.1.2 Misuse; and

3.2.13.1.3 Misappropriation of customer money.

3.2.13.2 The review should be performed by an appropriately qualified independent person who may be an internal or external party.

3.2.13.3 Where an internal party performs such review they shall be operationally independent from the individuals or functions within the registered person responsible for the operation of
the controls under review.

Notes:
1. Failure to comply with legislation to counter money laundering and the financing of terrorism or the relevant AML/CFT Handbook may form the basis for regulatory action by the JFSC. This is in addition to any legal action that may be taken by the judicial authorities for failure to comply with legislation to counter money laundering and the financing of terrorism.

2. With respect to 3.2.1.6, the JFSC’s policy on outsourcing is available from the JFSC’s website.

3. With respect to 3.2.10, further information may be found in the JFSC’s Guidance Note
on Managed Trust Company Businesses.

4. With respect to the various risk management provisions under principle 3 of the Code, particularly 3.1, 3.2 and 3.7, it is expected that a registered person will have specifically considered, amongst other risks, the risk of a cyber security incident, and  have in place a corresponding documented policy to identify assets and risks, to protect them, to quickly detect potential cyber security incidents, to respond to contain the impact of an incident and to recover from it.

3.3 Integrity and competence

3.3.1 A registered person must:

3.3.1.1 Ensure its directors, partners, senior managers and all other employees are fit and proper for their roles.

3.3.1.2 Assess and monitor the working practices, competence and probity of its directors, partners, senior managers and other employees.

3.3.1.3 Obtain and retain documentary evidence, which is used by the registered person to assess, both initially and on an on-going basis, the competence of its employees. Evidence may include, but not be limited to:

3.3.1.3.1 Employer references; and

3.3.1.3.2 With respect to trust company business employees, copies of documentary evidence of qualifications held, as appropriate.

3.3.1.4 Ensure that its trust company business employees collectively have a balance of qualifications necessary to fulfil their technical functions and suitable skills and experience to fulfil
their non-technical functions.

3.3.1.5 Ensure the following competency levels are met, at all times:

3.3.1.5.1 75% of the Category A trust company business employees must be suitably qualified;

3.3.1.5.2 75% of Category A and B trust company business employees cumulatively must be suitably qualified; and

3.3.1.6 Notify the JFSC in writing if the percentage of suitably qualified Category C trust company business employees that are either qualified or in the process of studying towards a qualification
contained in the TCB professional qualifications guidance note falls below 50%.

3.3.2 Where complex transactions are undertaken or complex structures are administered (either by the nature of the entity or the jurisdiction or the proper law or form of that entity), the registered person must consider requiring more specialised qualifications, experience and other competencies such that they can demonstrate that the trust company business employees are competent and
adequately supervised.

3.3.3 Where a registered person wishes to request a variance to the professional
qualifications requirements to recognise an alternative qualification, such a request
must:

3.3.4 3.3.3.1 Be made in writing;

3.3.3.2 Include a description of the role of the individual;

3.3.3.3 Include an explanation as to why the registered person considers the alternative qualification to be appropriate for that trust company business employee; and

3.3.3.4 Include confirmation that a copy of the syllabus studied or equivalent is available to the JFSC on request.

3.3.4 Where a Category A, B or C trust company business employee is awarded a qualification other than by way of direct examination a registered person must
notify the JFSC in writing.




Notes:
1.Guidance as to the circumstances in which the JFSC will consider other written
variance requests is provided in the TCB professional qualifications guidance note.

2.Trust company business employees include not only direct employees, but also indirect
employees, such as temporary and contracted employees and other contracted service
providers.

3.Paragraphs 3.3.1.1 and 3.3.1.2 above are subject to the Rehabilitation of Offenders
(Jersey) Law 2001, which prohibits an employer requesting information from its
employees and prospective employees about convictions that are “spent”. This general
prohibition is subject to exceptions provided by the Rehabilitation of Offenders
(Exceptions) (Jersey) Regulations 2002, as amended (the Exceptions Regulations).

4.Regulation 21 of the Exceptions Regulations permits a registered person, applicants
and those intending to apply for registration to request information about all
“relevant offences”, whether “spent” or not from employees holding certain positions
and applicants for such positions. To be consistent with the Code, it is necessary for
employers to make use of such exceptions when screening employees who are subject
to these exceptions.

5.Tables 1 - 3 of the First Schedule identify three categories of employee; the category
into which any individual falls being determined by the most “senior” role that
employee performs. (For example, if an employee has substantially the role of a
Category B employee but, rather than being “a decision taker” the employee is the
“significant decision-taker for customer affairs”, then the employee would be
regarded as a Category A employee).

6.With respect to “suitably qualified”, this is determined by the category into which an
individual falls and is detailed in Tables 1-3 of the First Schedule.

3.4 Continuing professional development (CPD)

3.4.1 The onus is on each registered person to demonstrate the adequacy of its CPD regime.

3.4.2 CPD is a compulsory requirement for all trust company business employees. A registered person is required to maintain CPD records for all such employees
(although it is permissible for a registered person to require its employees to keep
their own records and account to the registered person on a regular basis).

3.4.3. A registered person is responsible for ensuring that CPD is appropriate for its trust company business employees and this consideration must take into account the employee’s job description and current role and duties and may include future development needs.

3.4.4. A registered person must ensure that Category A and B trust company business employees undertake a minimum of 25 hours per year of CPD. Category C trust company business employees must undertake 15 hours per year of CPD. For all categories of trust company business employees: a maximum of five hours CPD may be relevant reading.

3.4.5. Where a registered person is only registered to carry on Class O trust company business the minimum number of CPD hours is reduced to 15 hours per year.

Notes:
1.It is recognised that some trust company business employees may be members of
professional bodies that have their own CPD requirements as a condition of continued
membership. In these circumstances, it is a matter for a registered person:

(a) Firstly, to ensure that the necessary opportunity is given to such employees to
enable them to comply with these professional requirements; and,

(b) Secondly, to take a view on the extent to which such professional CPD is
relevant to the registered person’s business and may therefore be counted
towards the trust company employees’ work-related CPD.

2. It is expected that trust company business employees will achieve their CPD targets by
adhering to the requirements of their own relevant professional body. However, where
the relevant professional body does not prescribe how CPD should be achieved, there
are a number of acceptable ways to attain the minimum CPD requirement, including,
but not restricted to:

(a) Studying for further qualifications;

(b) In-house training, seminars, conferences and product presentations;

(c) Computer-based training;

(d) One-to-one tuition;

(e) Reading relevant professional and trade magazines;

(f) Personal structured study; and

(g) Attending external training courses.

3.5 Compliance function, Compliance Officer, Money Laundering Reporting Officer and Money
Laundering Compliance Officer

3.5.1 The senior management (most often the board of directors) of the registered person is responsible for ensuring that it has robust arrangements for compliance with the regulatory framework, these must include:

3.5.1.1 Approval of a compliance policy;

3.5.1.2 Establishment of a permanent and effective compliance function, whose responsibilities are formally documented;

3.5.1.3 Assessment, on at least an annual basis, of the extent to which compliance risk is managed effectively; and

3.5.1.4 Appointment of an appropriately skilled and experienced person as its Compliance Officer.

3.5.2 The compliance function must:

3.5.2.1 Have appropriate independence;

3.5.2.2 Have direct access to senior management and board of directors, or equivalent;

3.5.2.3 Have unfettered access to all business lines, support departments and information necessary to properly discharge the responsibilities of the function; 

3.5.2.4 Act as the principal point of contact for employees on day-to- day regulatory matters; and

3.5.2.5 Be able to devote sufficient time, and have sufficient resources, to discharge properly the responsibilities of the function, including implementation of the compliance policy.

3.5.3 The registered person must ensure that the Compliance Officer is responsible for:

3.5.3.1 Ensuring appropriate monitoring of operational performances and managing regulatory and compliance risk within the registered person, which includes:

3.5.3.1.1 Monitoring that the internal policies and procedures are being consistently and effectively adhered to;

3.5.3.1.2 Assessing and recommending amendments to internal systems and controls as well as policies, and procedures to facilitate compliance with the regulatory framework; and

3.5.3.1.3 Where appropriate, promptly instigating action to remedy any deficiencies in the robust arrangements;

3.5.3.2 Providing senior management and the board of directors of the registered person with regular written reports in respect of the registered person’s compliance with the requirements of the FS(J)L, Orders (issued under the FS(J)L) and the Code; and

3.5.3.3 Acting as the principal point of contact with the JFSC on day-to- day regulatory matters.

3.5.4 The Compliance Officer must:

3.5.4.1 Be an individual operating under a contract of employment directly with the registered person or another company within the same group;

3.5.4.2 Be based in Jersey;

3.5.4.3 Have sufficient experience and skills which includes, holding an appropriate compliance or other qualification or be studying towards such a qualification; and

3.5.4.4 Have appropriate status and authority within the registered person to ensure that senior management and the board of directors of the registered person react to and determine whether to act upon his or her recommendations.

3.5.5. In the event that a Compliance Officer is temporarily unable to fulfil his/her responsibilities the registered person must:

3.5.5.1 Notify the JFSC; and

3.5.5.2 Designate an appropriately skilled and experienced alternate.

3.5.6. With respect to 3.5.5, notification to the JFSC must be made, in writing, as soon as the registered person becomes aware that the Compliance Officer will be temporarily unable to fulfil their responsibilities.

Notes:
1.There is no specific requirement for a registered person to be subject to an internal
audit review. However, the JFSC will recognise and take comfort from those registered
persons that have effective internal audit controls, or where such functions are
provided from elsewhere within a group.

2. It is a requirement of the Money Laundering Order that a registered person must
appoint a Money Laundering Reporting Officer and Money Laundering Compliance
Officer. The relevant AML/CFT Handbook sets out additional requirements for
registered persons. The JFSC expects the Money Laundering Compliance Officer to
form part of the compliance function.

3. The roles of Compliance Officer, Money Laundering Reporting Officer and Money
Laundering Compliance Officer meet the definition of a key person, as defined by
Article 1 of the FS(J)L: consequently, Article 14 of the FS(J)L applies.

4. The Compliance Officer, Money Laundering Reporting Officer and Money Laundering
Compliance Officer may be the same person. It is also recognised that there may be
registered persons where the compliance function is the Compliance Officer.

5. Where a registered person is a managed entity, it is acceptable for the managed entity
to enter into an agreement with their manager for the provision of a Compliance
Officer, a Money Laundering Reporting Officer and a Money Laundering Compliance
Officer.

6. When considering a key person application, the JFSC will not only look at the suitability
of the qualifications and experience of the applicant, but will also consider this in the
context of the qualification and experience of the balance of the board and/or other
key persons employed by the registered person.

7. With respect to 3.5.5 the JFSC considers a period of in excess of four weeks to  constitute temporarily unable to fulfil his/her responsibilities.

3.6 Complaints

3.6.1 A registered person must establish and maintain an effective complaint handling system and procedures and in particular must:

3.6.1.1.  Maintain adequate records of complaints against the registered person, including a central register that contains details of any agreed compensation or compromise;

3.6.1.2 Inform customers of how complaints may be made and how they may expect these to be responded to;

3.6.1.3. Handle complaints transparently, competently, diligently, and impartially;

3.6.1.4.Provide, in writing, within five business days, unless expressly agreed by the complainant to the contrary an acknowledgement that their complaint has been received and confirm that the complaint is being considered;

3.6.1.5 Keep the complainant informed about the progress of their complaint, including details of any actions being taken to resolve their complaint;

3.6.1.6.Advise the complainant in writing when the complaint is considered closed and where the complaint is not upheld, clearly state the reason(s) for rejecting the complaint;

3.6.1.7. Comply with the requirement of 5.2.12, in relation to determining whether a complaint gives rise to any notification requirement under its professional indemnity insurance policy; and

3.6.1.8. Consider the complaints data for patterns emerging.

3.6.2. As soon as it becomes aware, a registered person must notify the JFSC promptly, in writing, if:

3.6.2.1 A complaint is not satisfactorily resolved within three months of it being lodged;

3.6.2.2 A pattern to complaints is identified; or

3.6.2.3 Any complaint results in a claim under the registered person’s professional indemnity insurance policy.

Note:
1. With respect to 3.6.2, “as soon as it becomes aware” applies from the point at which
the registered person knows, or has reasonable grounds for believing, that any of the
matters stated has occurred or may be about to occur, even where it is outside the
control of the registered person.

3.7 Record keeping

Note:
1. This section explains the minimum standards of record keeping that are required in
respect of a registered person’s own business and the trust company business
services that it is providing.

All records

3.7.1 3.7.2 3.7.3 3.7.4 A registered person must ensure that it has appropriate record keeping
arrangements for compliance with the applicable Laws (including anti-money
laundering legislation and company legislation), Orders and regulatory
requirements, set by the Code or the relevant AML/CFT Handbook.

A registered person is expected to maintain such books and records in a language
understood by the employees of the business. These must be translated into
English at the request of the JFSC. 

A registered person must be able to readily retrieve them in Jersey and, if kept otherwise than in legible form, maintain them so as to be readable at a computer terminal in Jersey so that they may be produced in legible form without delay.

A registered person must have a clearly documented policy and procedure
regarding record retention that includes:

3.7.3.1 Periodic review of the accessibility and condition of paper and
electronic records;

3.7.3.2 The adequacy of the safekeeping of records; and

3.7.3.3 Periodic testing of procedures relating to the retrieval of
records.

A registered person that is ceasing to conduct trust company business is required to
arrange appropriate record keeping arrangements as part of a cessation of business
plan.

Business records

3.7.5 3.7.6 Customer records

3.7.7 3.7.8 A registered person must maintain an audit trail of material changes to the policies
and procedures manual that covers the operation of the registered person, which is
updated as required. When updates are made, the effective date of such updates
must be recorded and the superseded records maintained. This is especially true in
respect of 3.2.1.1.1, 3.2.1.1.5 and 3.2.1.1.6.

The period for which business records must be kept is the later of:

3.7.6.1 3.7.6.2 The period required for any particular record by any law;
The relevant AML/CFT Handbook; or

3.7.6.3 Where records relate to significant corporate governance
matters, such as management meeting minutes and risk
assessment matters, or are records relating to requirements
established by the Code - ten years from the date of the
record.

A registered person is expected to keep adequate, orderly and up-to-date customer
records which are in line with:

3.7.7.1 The requirements, including retention period, set for any
particular record by any law; and

3.7.7.2 The requirements established by Part 4 of the Money
Laundering Order and as set out in the relevant AML/CFT
Handbook.

Where the Code requires customer related records to be kept, which are in addition
to the records required by the Money Laundering Order, these must be kept for at
least five years from the date of the event to which the record relates.

3.7.9 With respect to 3.7.7, if it is the case that the record retention periods differ, the
customer records must be retained for the longest designated period.

Notes:
1. 2. 3. The Code does not establish any retention requirements for tape recordings of
telephone conversations.
With respect to 3.7.5, a change to the policies and procedures manual that
necessitates communication to impacted staff is a material change.
With respect to 3.7.6.1, the JFSC considers that laws relating to companies, tax,
proceeds of crime, and data protection may be relevant.

3.8 Payment of financial penalties

3.8.1 A registered person must not pay a financial penalty imposed by the JFSC on any
other person.


4 A registered person must be transparent in its business
arrangements.

4.1 4.2 4.3 A registered person must disclose on its stationery and advertising material that it is
regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.

A registered person must communicate with customers in a way that is adequate, fair and not
misleading.

A registered person must be open and transparent about its fees and charges, in relation to
the provision of trust and company services, including:

4.3.1 In advance of taking an appointment, reaching agreement on, and documenting,
the basis for its fees and charges, including the ability to make changes to the basis
for determining fees;

4.3.2 Disclosure of all fees and charges associated with the trust company service
provided, as either a monetary or percentage figure, including, but not limited to,
any:

4.4 4.5 4.3.2.1 Group related charges;

4.3.2.2 Commissions (both initial and recurring); and

4.3.2.3 Payments to or from third parties (such as introductory fees or
commission sharing arrangements);

4.3.3 The manner by which fees and charges will be collected, including whether agreed
fees and charges will be deducted directly from the customer’s assets without their
prior approval – effectively a “no surprises” policy; and

4.3.4 In relation to the termination of services, whether fees paid in advance are
refundable in the event of termination.

A registered person must accurately record the basis of any charges in respect of time spent
and disbursements and make the relevant records available to customers upon request.

A registered person must supply a person to whom it provides a service set out in Article 2(4)
of the FS(J)L with confirmation, in writing, of the services that it is providing as well as a
contract, agreement or other written form setting out its general and specific terms
associated with providing those services (accepting in the case of Article 2(4)(h) of the FS(J)L
that the identity and existence of a person to whom the service is provided will be
dependent upon such terms and circumstances as might prevail at any particular point during
the lifecycle of an express trust). This documentation must:

4.5.1 Be distinguishable from marketing or promotional material;

4.5.2 Be consistent with the Code;

4.5.3 Be clearly expressed in plain language that only uses technical or legal terms where
absolutely necessary;

4.5.4 Be provided prior to the provision of any trust company business service, except
when it is impractical to do so, in which case the document shall be provided at the
earliest available opportunity;

4.5.5 Explain whether the registered person is acting as a principal or as the agent of the
person to whom the service is provided or any other person;

4.5.6 4.5.7 Where the registered person holds customer money, set out the terms on which
that money is held;

Include all appropriate information relevant to the service that will be provided.

Notes:
1. 2. For the purpose of 4.1, the JFSC considers that, at a minimum, “stationery” includes:
headed letter paper; emails sent in lieu of a letter; and facsimiles. The JFSC does not
consider the following to be stationery unless they are quite clearly being utilised in
lieu of a letter or as advertising material: text messages; account statements;
business cards; and compliment slips.

If, in the case of any one customer or customers, it is impractical or inappropriate to
provide the information required by paragraphs 4.3 directly, it would be sufficient in
such instances for the registered person to ensure that the general basis for their
charges, the ability to make changes to the basis for determining fees and a scale of
charges, are available on request.

5 A registered person must maintain, and be able to
demonstrate the existence of, adequate financial
resources and adequate insurance.

5.1 Financial resources

5.1.1 5.1.2 5.1.3 5.1.4 5.1.5 5.1.6 5.1.7 Where a registered person is a Jersey registered company that holds a registration to undertake deposit-taking business, and consequently provides the JFSC with a quarterly prudential report, the Adjusted Net Liquid Assets (ANLA) requirements set by the Code do not apply.

Where the registered person operates in Jersey as a branch of a legal entity
registered outside Jersey that holds a registration to undertake deposit-taking
business and its immediate home regulator applies Basel II prudential requirements
or has implemented the 1997 Market Risk Accord then the ANLA requirements set
by the Code do not apply. 

Registered persons to whom this paragraph applies must notify the JFSC, in writing.

Where a registered person is a 100% subsidiary of a Jersey incorporated company
registered to carry on deposit-taking business it may apply to the JFSC, in writing,
for a variance (exemption) from completing the ANLA calculation. Such a variance
will only be considered if the deposit-taker provides a letter of undertaking,
acceptable to the JFSC, in respect of providing financial support to the trust
company.

A registered person must maintain:

5.1.4.1 A minimum of £25,000 paid up share capital (or evidenced net
assets position for non-incorporated entities) and a minimum
surplus of ANLA over the Expenditure Requirement in the ratio
of 110% in accordance with the calculation set out in the
Second Schedule; and

5.1.4.2 A minimum net assets position of £25,000 at all times.
A registered person must immediately notify the JFSC in writing if the nominal value
of fully paid shares is less than £25,000. Where the registered person has a
combination of fully paid shares and share premium that exceeds £25,000 in total,
the JFSC may deem the registered person to have satisfied the first part of
paragraph 5.1.4.1.

A registered person must perform the calculation set out in the Second Schedule as
appropriate to the business, but at least once every three months. In addition, the
frequency of the calculation shall increase to monthly or other such period as the
JFSC may determine, if either:

5.1.6.1 A registered person’s ANLA falls below 130% of its Expenditure
Requirement; or

5.1.6.2 An event occurs which has a material adverse effect on the
registered person’s financial resources.
In respect of a registered person that is part of an affiliation:

5.1.7.1 Each affiliation member must comply with the minimum share
capital requirement and with the minimum ANLA requirement;

OR

5.1.7.2 5.1.8 5.1.9 5.1.10 Only the affiliation leader need comply with the minimum
share capital and ANLA requirements provided that the
affiliation leader is able to prepare consolidated financial
information that enables it to perform, at least once every
three months, the financial resource requirement calculation in
respect of the affiliation in accordance with paragraph 5.1.4.1.

A registered person is required to immediately notify the JFSC in writing (in addition
to any notification obligation under the FS(J)L or the Code):

5.1.8.1 If its ANLA falls below 130% of its Expenditure Requirement;

5.1.8.2 If its ANLA falls below 110% of its Expenditure Requirement;
and
5.1.8.3 Of any transaction or situation that appears not to be catered
for in, or where the application of, the Second Schedule might
give a misleading impression of the adequacy of the financial
resources.

The JFSC may, on written application by a registered person, consider a variance to
the notification obligation as stated in 5.1.8.1.

Where a registered person wishes to make an application for a variation to the
treatment of assets, liabilities and/or expenditure items in the ANLA calculation this
must be made in writing to the JFSC.

Subordinated Loans

5.1.11 5.1.12 5.1.13 On submission of a written request, by the registered person, the JFSC will consider granting consent to exclude a long term subordinated loan as a liability within the
ANLA calculation. Any request must be accompanied by a signed consent request
checklist and such consent is only likely to be granted where:

5.1.11.1 The subordinated loan is drawn up in accordance with the
JFSC’s proforma Subordinated Loan Agreement; and

5.1.11.2 The subordinated loan is made by an approved lender.
Specifically, with respect to the subordinated loan referred to in 5.1.11 the
Subordinated Loan Agreement must be signed by authorised signatories of all
parties to the agreement, and:

5.1.12.1 Be for a fixed period of not less than two years; or

5.1.12.2 Where no fixed term is cited, be subject to a minimum notice
period of repayment of at least two years.

Where the JFSC has considered and granted a variance in respect of the treatment
of a subordinated loan within the ANLA calculation, the amount deducted may not
exceed the lower of:

5.1.13.1 5.1.13.2 5.1.14 The drawn down amount of the subordinated loan; and
Four times the net assets position of the registered person,
calculated using the registered person’s latest audited financial
statements.
The variance treatment for the subordinated loan will automatically fall away if
either:

5.1.15 5.1.14.1 The registered person fails to comply with any of the
requirements of the subordinated loan agreement, including
the notification requirements; or

5.1.14.2 The subordinated loan repayment date falls due within one
year.

In addition to being a signatory to the Subordinated Loan Agreement, the JFSC will
place a condition on the registered person’s registration, utilising Article 10 of the
FS(J)L, requiring that they comply in full with the terms of the Subordinated Loan
Agreement.

Notes:
1. 2. 3. 4. “net assets” is defined as total assets less total liabilities.

The JFSC has published a guidance note on the ANLA calculation which is available
from the policy statements and guidance notes section of the JFSC website.

The proforma Subordinated Loan Agreement and consent request checklist are
available from the JFSC website.

For the purposes of 5.1.11.2 an approved lender is:

(a) A financial service business as defined by Article 2 of the FS(J)L; or

(b) A financial service business regulated by a “relevant supervisory authority”, as
defined by Article 1 of the FS(J)L;

(c) A person that is registered by the JFSC to carry on deposit-taking business under
Article 9 of the Banking Business (Jersey) Law 1991;

(d) A principal person of the registered person; or

(e) A person that does not meet any of the above criteria but whom has been
specifically approved by the JFSC.

5.2 Insurance Arrangements

5.2.1 5.2.2 5.2.3 A registered person must have and maintain adequate insurance cover at all times,
commensurate with its business activities.

5.2.1.1 Such cover must include professional indemnity insurance (PII) extended to include fidelity guarantee (employee dishonesty or fraud) insurance and director's and officer's insurance.

PII cover and extensions must include negligence and errors and omissions by a registered person and employee dishonesty and must, where possible, extend to all territories from which a registered person conducts business.

A registered person must not enter into, arrange, claim on or make a payment
under a contract of insurance that is intended to have, or has or would have, the
effect of indemnifying any person against all or part of a financial penalty imposed
by the JFSC.

5.2.4 5.2.5 5.2.6 5.2.7 5.2.8 5.2.9 5.2.10 PII cover must be written on a “claims-made” basis including costs and expenses and, so far as lawful, must include:

5.2.4.1 Legal defence costs;

5.2.4.2 Loss or theft of documents (liability and costs of replacement,
reinstatement, restoration or reconstruction of data);

5.2.4.3 Self-employed or contract hire persons engaged in a registered
person’s business; and

5.2.4.4 Indemnity to current or former employees, partners and
consultants.

Subject to 5.2.6, the minimum indemnity limit for any one claim and in the
aggregate must equal or exceed the greater of:

5.2.5.1 Three times the amount of relevant fees and commissions;

5.2.5.2 Thirty times the amount of relevant fees and commissions
from a registered person’s single largest customer (including all
related customers); or

5.2.5.3 £5,000,000 (five million pounds sterling).
A registered person shall not be required by virtue of 5.2.5 to have aggregate
insurance cover exceeding £10,000,000 (ten million pounds sterling).
In the event that a registered person’s aggregate level of PII cover is depleted as a
result of a claim on its policy, such that it is no longer sufficient to meet the
requirements set out in 5.2.5, a registered person must obtain reinstated cover that
meets the requirements set out under paragraph 5.2.5.

Any excess (or deductible) per claim on the policy must not:

5.2.8.1 Exceed £20,000 (twenty thousand pounds sterling) or 3% of
the annual relevant fees and commissions, whichever is
greater; or

5.2.8.2 Reduce the limit of indemnity payable under the policy such
that it is insufficient to meet the minimum indemnity limit
prescribed under 5.2.5.
In the case of an affiliation, it is the responsibility of the affiliation leader to
demonstrate to the JFSC that the insurance cover maintained meets the
requirements of paragraphs 5.2.1, 5.2.2 and 5.2.4. This may be achieved by:

5.2.9.1 Each participating member of the affiliation complying with the
PII requirements as though each member was a non affiliated
person;

5.2.9.2 Each participating member of the affiliation is named on a
single PII policy, the extent of cover being determined in
accordance with paragraph 5.2.5 and is based on the
aggregated affiliation relevant fees and commissions; or

5.2.9.3 A combination of the alternatives set out in paragraphs 5.2.9.1
and 5.2.9.2.

As soon as it becomes aware, a registered person must notify the JFSC in writing of
any material limitations in its PII policy, including the basis on which the limitation has been applied, in respect of matters such as:

5.2.11 5.2.12 5.2.13 5.2.10.1 An inability to obtain PII cover in line with the requirements of 5.2.4 or 5.2.5;

5.2.10.2 Any territory from which a registered person conducts business or may reasonably be expected to conduct business;

5.2.10.3 Any exclusion applied by way of endorsements;

5.2.10.4 Any retroactive date applied to the PII policy;

5.2.10.5 The cancellation of the PII policy;

5.2.10.6 If a registered person becomes aware that it has conducted any activity that is not covered by the PII policy; and

5.2.10.7 If a registered person’s aggregate level of PII cover is depleted as described at 5.2.7.

A registered person that is ceasing to conduct a class of financial service business is
required to arrange for appropriate “run off” PII cover in respect of claims arising
from past acts or omissions. The level of such cover will require the JFSC’s consent
as part of a cessation of business plan.

A registered person must have adequate procedures in place to ensure compliance
with all terms and conditions set out in its PII policy, particularly in relation to the
timely notification of events by a registered person to its insurer, which may lead to
a claim on the policy by a registered person.

Where a registered person may be subject to an Eligible complaint as defined at
Article 7 of the Financial Services Ombudsman (Jersey) Law 2014, in addition to the
requirements at 5.2.4, a registered person must ensure that its PII cover is adequate
in the event that a Determination is made against a registered person by the
Channel Islands Financial Ombudsman.

Notes:
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. With respect to 5.2, a registered person may consider allocating responsibility to a
named principal person to ensure that adequate insurance cover is maintained at all
times (5.2.1) and that a registered person is in compliance with all terms and conditions
set out in its PII policy (5.2.12).

Paragraph 5.2.3 is not intended to prevent a registered person from entering into,
arranging, claiming on or making any payment under a contract of insurance which
indemnifies any person against all or part of the costs of defending JFSC enforcement
action or any costs the person may be ordered to pay to the JFSC.

With respect to 5.2.5.1 and 5.2.5.2,“relevant fees and commissions” for PII purposes is
gross income paid or payable to a registered person, which is fees, commission,
brokerage, or other relevant income arising from professional business activities
(regulated or not) covered under the PII policy. This applies for the last accounting year
before the start or renewal of the policy, or as per the business plan for new applicants.
With respect to 5.2.10 “as soon as it becomes aware” applies from the point at which a
registered person knows, or has reasonable grounds for believing, that any of the
matters stated has occurred or may be about to occur, even where it is outside the
control of a registered person.

The JFSC has issued a guidance note on professional indemnity insurance, available from
the policy statements and guidance notes page of the JFSC website, which a registered
person may find helpful when considering the PII requirements. Specifically,

6. 7. 8. (a) With respect to the material limitations notification required by paragraph
5.2.10, paragraph 3.1 of the guidance note provides a list of exclusions and
limitations that the JFSC considers standard and therefore fall outside of the
notification requirement; and

(b) Paragraph 6.3.2 of the guidance note highlights the information to be submitted to the JFSC when requesting a variance to enter into a self-insurance arrangement.

With respect to 5.2.9, PII cover for an affiliation may be arranged by the affiliation
leader for the whole affiliation.

With respect to 5.2.11, the JFSC will generally expect to see “run off” PII cover covering
a period of at least three years.

The requirements of paragraph 5.2.1 may be satisfied by a registered person being covered under the provisions of a group PII policy if such cover is sufficient to satisfy the requirements under paragraphs 5.2.1 to 5.2.6.

6 A registered person must deal with the JFSC in an open
and co-operative manner.

Notes:
1. 2. 3. 4. There is a need for candour and co-operation in a registered person’s relationship with
the JFSC. Article 28(3) of the FS(J)L provides that a registered person or formerly
registered person shall be guilty of an offence if he or she fails to provide the JFSC with
any information in his or her possession, knowing or having reasonable cause to
believe that or being reckless as to whether –

(a) The information is relevant to the exercise by the JFSC of its functions under the
FS(J)L in relation to the registered person or formerly registered person; and

(b) The withholding of the information is likely to result in the JFSC being misled as
to any matter which is relevant to and of material significance for the exercise
of those functions in relation to the registered person or formerly registered
person.

The scope of Principle 6 is extended to the provision of information and the
notification of events concerning non-regulated activities and other members of the
corporate group, to the extent that such information or events might reasonably be
expected to have a material impact on the registered person in Jersey.

Notification to the Companies Registry does not constitute notification to the JFSC for
the purposes of this Principle.

The JFSC considers that the obligations of a registered person under this Principle
include the timely provision of data required in connection with a registered person’s
regulatory fees and the timely payment of fees due.

General Notifications

6.1 6.2 A registered person must advise the JFSC in writing as soon as it becomes aware of any
matter that might reasonably be expected to affect its registration or be in the interests of its
customers to disclose. Wherever possible this notification must include details of the steps
the registered person has taken, or intends to take, to mitigate the matter.

A registered person must comply with the notification requirements of the JFSC’s policy on
outsourcing as may be updated from time to time.

Note:
1. With respect to 6.1, “as soon as it becomes aware” applies from the point at which the
registered person knows, or has reasonable grounds for believing, that any of the
matters referred to have occurred or may be about to occur, even where it is outside
the control of the registered person. The JFSC considers the following indicative that
notification is necessary. Any matter which:

(a) Is material to the JFSC’s ability to undertake its function of supervision of
financial services provided in or from within Jersey;

(b) The registered person considers is material to, or may make it impractical for it
to comply with, one or more of:

i. The provisions of the FS(J)L or any Regulation or Order made under it;

ii. Compliance with a registration condition;

iii. Compliance with a direction issued by the JFSC;

iv. The Code;

v. The fitness and propriety of its principal persons, key persons or trust
company business employees, especially where the registered person has
imposed a formal disciplinary measure or sanction.

Specific Notifications

6.3 A registered person must notify the JFSC of the following, in writing, not less than 10 business
days before the change is implemented:

6.3.1 A change in the name of the registered person;

6.3.2 The adoption of, or a change in, any business name under which the registered
person carries on trust company business;

6.3.3 A change to:

6.3.3.1 The address of the principal office of the registered person,

6.3.3.2 The address of the registered office of the registered person,
And

6.3.3.3 Any address which is treated as the proper address of the
registered person by Article 40(6) of the FS(J)L;

6.3.4 A change to the capital structure of a registered person (includes, inter alia, the
issuance of preference shares and buy back of ordinary shares), in particular:

6.3.4.1 Where an opinion has been obtained on accounting for any
aspect of the change this should be provided to the JFSC as
part of the notification, and

6.3.4.2 The revised capital structure must not take effect until the JFSC
has provided the registered person with a letter of no objection
in relation to the proposed structure;

6.3.5 The details of any loan which has been granted to a registered person and for which
payment of the remaining balance has been waived such that the remaining
balance is accounted for as a credit to reserves;

6.3.6 Any proposal to “reinstate” a loan balance (either in full or in part) which meets the
criteria set out in 6.3.5; and

6.3.7 The summary winding up or voluntary dissolution of a registered person.

6.4 A registered person must notify the JFSC, in writing, within a reasonable time of becoming
aware of, or resolving to undertake, any of the following:

6.4.1 The decision to voluntarily cease a business activity, whether temporarily or
permanently, where this decision involves the revocation of a registration in
accordance with Article 9(4)(a) of the FS(J)L, in this case a registered person must
complete a Cessation of Business Plan, as prescribed by the JFSC, which must
include details of arrangements for the protection of customers, creditors and other

6.4.2 6.4.3 6.4.4 6.4.5 6.4.6 6.4.7 6.4.8 6.4.9 6.4.10 6.4.11 6.4.12 6.4.13 6.4.14 6.4.15 stakeholders. Before implementing a Cessation of Business Plan a registered person must obtain written confirmation from the JFSC that it has no objection to it;

The presentation of any application to the court for désastre;

The summoning of any meeting to consider a resolution to wind-up a registered person or the winding up of the registered person;

The application by any person for the commencement of any insolvency proceedings, appointment of any receiver, administrator or provisional liquidator under the law of any country in respect of the registered person;

The making or any proposals for the making of a composition or arrangement with creditors of the registered person;

The imposition of disciplinary measures or disciplinary sanctions on the registered person or any of their principal persons or key persons by any relevant supervisory authority or professional body;

The conviction of the registered person or any of its principal persons or key persons, for any offence:

6.4.7.1 Under legislation of any jurisdiction relating to the conduct of financial services business (includes legislation relating to: banking, building societies, collective investment funds, companies, credit unions, consumer credit, friendly societies, insolvency, insurance, industrial and provident societies and trust companies), or

6.4.7.2 Involving fraud or dishonesty;

The imposition of any penalties for deliberate tax evasion on the registered person
or any of its principal persons or key persons;

The re-registration of a registered person incorporated with unlimited liability as a
limited liability company;

A general partner in a registered person becoming a limited partner;

The granting, withdrawal or refusal of any application for authorisation to carry on
any regulated business in Jersey, or any jurisdiction outside Jersey, or the
revocation of such authorisation;

The withdrawal of an application for membership of any professional body by the
registered person, or principal person or key person of the registered person, in any
jurisdiction, or refusal or revocation of such a membership;

The appointment of inspectors (howsoever named) by a statutory or other
regulatory authority to investigate the affairs of the registered person;

Any litigation following the institution of proceedings before a Court of Law:

6.4.14.1 Instigated by the registered person (or a subsidiary of the
registered person),

6.4.14.2 Instigated against the registered person, or

6.4.14.3 Where the registered person is a party cited;

Any decision relating to business activities likely to have a material effect on the
registered person or its profitability (notifications must specify, as applicable, the
name of any company and its principal business), such decisions include, but are
not limited to the:

6.4.16 6.4.17 6.4.18 6.4.19 6.4.20 6.4.21 6.4.15.1 Introduction of a new business activity,

6.4.15.2 Closure to new business,

6.4.15.3 Formation, acquisition, disposal or dissolution of a subsidiary, associated group company or branch office, wherever situated,
And

6.4.15.4 Changes to investments held, where the registered person acquires or disposes, for its own benefit, of a holding of more than half in nominal value of the equity share capital of a company, specifying the name of the company and its principal business;

Where a registered person is acting as a manager of a managed trust company
(under a trust company business Class N registration) the intention to resign as the
manager;

An intention to be appointed as a manager of a managed trust company (under a trust company business Class N registration);

Where a registered person administers a private trust company business, changes in
the status of such companies, such that:

6.4.18.1 The administration is transferred to another registered person
or registered persons,

6.4.18.2 Another registered person or registered persons are appointed
to jointly provide administration services, or

6.4.18.3 Where a registered person ceases to provide administration
services; and Any material changes, other than those specifically referred to in the Code, in the
information previously submitted under the following headings, any:

6.4.19.1 Overseas operations through which the registered person carries on trust company business, irrespective of the vehicle utilised to deliver the business (branch, subsidiary, representative office or otherwise), and

6.4.19.2 Jurisdictions outside Jersey in which the registered person carries on trust company business indicating whether this is done through a branch office, a subsidiary or otherwise.
A decision by the registered person’s auditor to qualify its audit report or to raise an emphasis of matter therein;

Any material deficiencies in the effectiveness of controls over customer money
identified during an independent review as required by paragraph 3.2.13.

Notes:
1. With respect to 6.4, the JFSC considers
(a) (b) “a reasonable time” to be five business days; and
That “becoming aware” applies from the point at which the registered person
knows, or has reasonable grounds for believing, that any of the matters stated
has occurred or may be about to occur, even where it is outside of the control of
the registered person.

2. 3. With respect to 6.4.1, a full outline of the matters that must be addressed within the
COBP is available from the JFSC upon request.

With respect to 6.4.18, it should be noted that private trust company business is
defined in the Financial Services (Trust Company Business (Exemptions)) (Jersey) Order
2000 as meaning:

A person being a company –
(a) The purpose of which is
i. Solely to provide trust company business services in respect of a specific trust
or trusts; or

ii. To act for that purpose and to act as a member of the council of a
foundation or of foundations (otherwise than as a qualified member, as
that term is defined by the Foundations (Jersey) Law 2009);

(b) That does not solicit from or provide trust company business services to the
public; and

(c) The administration of which is carried out by a registered person registered to
carry out trust company business,

When providing a service specified in Article 2(4) of the Law where the name of the
company is notified to the JFSC.

Notifications arising in other parts of the Code

6.5 A registered person is required to comply with notification requirements established in other
parts of the Code:

6.5.1 6.5.2 6.5.3 6.5.4 6.5.5 6.5.6 6.5.7 6.5.8 3.1.2.2 sets a requirement to contact the JFSC as soon as a registered person becomes aware that the regulatory span of control requirements will not be
maintained, including where regulatory span of control is maintained with the minimum number of individuals of which one is absent for a substantial period of time;

3.3.1.6 sets a notification requirement regarding the percentage of suitably
qualified Category C trust company business employees;

3.3.4 sets a notification requirement where a qualification is obtained other than by
way of examination;

3.5.5 sets a notification requirement in respect of a compliance officer being
temporarily unable to fulfil his/her responsibilities;

3.6.2 sets notification requirements in respect of complaints;

5.1.2 sets a notification requirement on registered persons that are branches of a
legal entity registered outside Jersey and the registered person is not required to complete the ANLA requirements of the Code;

5.1.8 sets notification requirements in respect of ANLA requirements; and

5.2.10 sets notification requirements in respect of PII.

Notifying or providing information via the JFSC’s online portal

6.6 Where the JFSC so specifies (whether in the Code or otherwise) a registered person must
notify or provide information by means of the JFSC’s online portal.

6.7 If, because of a systems failure of any kind, a registered person is unable to access the online
portal to make a relevant notification or provide required information it must notify the JFSC
in writing within one business day of the systems failure being identified.

7 A registered person must not make statements that are
misleading, false or deceptive.

7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 A registered person must take reasonable steps to ensure that its financial service
advertisements (advertisements) are not misleading, false or deceptive. Words used in
advertisements must be chosen carefully and certain words, such as “guarantee”, “assured”,
“confidential” and “secret”, must be treated with great caution.

An advertisement must not contain:
7.2.1 A statement, promise or forecast unless the registered person, at the time the
advertisement is made has reasonable grounds for believing, is not misleading, false
or deceptive;

7.2.2 A statement of opinion held by any person unless the registered person, at the time
the advertisement is made has reasonable grounds for believing such statement, to
be the honestly held opinion of that person at that time;

7.2.3 A statement of fact unless the registered person, at the time the advertisement is
made has reasonable grounds for believing such statement will continue to be true
for so long as the advertisement continues to be made in current publications;

7.2.4 A statement about the scale of activities of, or any of the activities of, or the
resources of or available to, a registered person or that registered person’s group or
affiliation unless the registered person, at the time the advertisement is made has
reasonable grounds for believing such statement, is not misleading, false or
deceptive;

7.2.5 A statement relating to taxation benefits unless it is clearly illustrated by example
to show what it means in practice and to whom such benefits apply;

7.2.6 A statement relating to customer confidentiality unless it is qualified to show the
limits of any confidentiality assurance made;

7.2.7 A statement of comparison with other entities carrying on trust company business
unless the basis of comparison is clearly stated and the comparison is fair; or

7.2.8 A statement implying that the service is only available for a limited period or in
limited form, if such is not the case.

An advertisement made in a written or broadcast form must not contain:

7.3.1 A statement of fact unless the registered person, at the time the advertisement is
made has reasonable grounds, supported by documentary evidence, for believing
such statement to be true; or

7.3.2 A statement of opinion held by any person unless the registered person, at the time
the advertisement is made, has reasonable grounds, supported by documentary
evidence, for believing such statement to be the honestly held opinion of that
person at that time.

The content and format of any advertisement must not:

7.4.1 Be designed so as to be likely to be misunderstood;

7.4.2 Be designed so as to disguise the significance of any warning statement or
information, which is required to be included under the Code; or

7.5 7.6 7.4.3 Signify in any way that the advertisement is approved by the JFSC.
An advertisement may include a quotation from a statement made by any person
commending any service provided that:

7.5.1 Where the person is an employee or associate of the registered person, that fact is
disclosed in the advertisement;

7.5.2 The quotation is included with that person’s written consent;

7.5.3 The statement is relevant to the service that is the subject of the advertisement;

7.5.4 Where the whole of the statement is not quoted, what is quoted represents fairly
the message contained in the whole of the statement; and

7.5.5 The statement has not become inaccurate or misleading subsequent to it being
made.

The registered person must be able to demonstrate that adequate disclosure of the key risks
and the relevant terms and conditions was made to the customer before commitment was
made, so as to ensure the customer has made an informed decision.

Notes:
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. Article 1 of the FS(J)L defines a “financial service advertisement” as an advertisement
containing – (a) an invitation to transact financial service business; or (b) information
which is intended or might reasonably be presumed to be intended to lead directly or
indirectly to the transaction of financial service business, and includes any means of
bringing such an invitation or such information to the notice of any person, and a
reference to an advertisement shall be construed accordingly. It is the JFSC’s view that
this definition covers written, broadcast and oral advertisements.

For the purpose of Principle 7, "written" and "broadcast" have the same meaning as
provided by Article 1 of the Financial Services (Advertising) (Jersey) Order 2008.

Under Article 39L of the FS(J)L, it is an offence for any person to knowingly or
recklessly make a misleading, false or deceptive statement, promise or forecast for the
purpose of inducing another person to enter into, or to refrain from entering into, an
agreement for the provision of financial service business.

The requirements in Principle 7 are not intended to capture advertising or promotional
literature forwarded by the registered person to its customers on behalf of third
parties.

Advertisements that meet the exempt criteria set out in Article 2(2) of the Financial
Services (Advertising) (Jersey) Order 2008 are also exempt from the requirements of
Principle 7.

For the avoidance of doubt, the FS(J)L does not require advertisements to be approved
by the JFSC and accordingly the JFSC would not normally contribute to any review or
vetting process. In serious cases, however the JFSC will consider exercising its powers
of direction to have an advertisement amended or withdrawn.

It may not be possible or practicable to list within an advertisement all areas of risk
that might apply to a particular product or service. Similarly, it may not be possible or
practicable to specify all of the relevant terms and conditions. The necessary extent to
which the risk warnings and the terms and conditions are specified in an
advertisement will be dependent upon the nature of the products or services being
advertised.

The First Schedule

Trust Company Business Employee Categories and Qualifications

The full definition of a trust company business employee is provided as part of the TCB Fees available
from the JFSC website. For the purposes of the Code, part (a) of the definition is relevant.
The following notes apply to Category, A, B and C trust company business employees:

1. 2. 3. It is the responsibility of the registered person to determine and document what
constitutes “relevant experience”.
Continuing Professional Development (CPD) should be “appropriate” i.e. Have regard
to the employee’s job description and duties possibly including future development
needs. CPD may include up to a maximum of five hours reading. Further guidance on
CPD is provided in paragraph 3.4 of the Code.

The JFSC has published the TCB professional qualifications guidance note which
provides details of qualifications acceptable to the JFSC for trust company business
employees (Table 4 and Table 5) along with details in respect of applying to the JFSC
for a variance from the standard requirements.

Table 1

Category A Employee Role Indicators
› Principal person
› Overall responsibility for the activities and decisions of all employees
› Makes “significant” decisions in respect of trust company business customer
affairs
Overall Requirement and Suitably Qualified
In accordance with paragraph 3.3.1.5.1, 75% of a registered person’s Category A trust company
business employees must be suitably qualified.

A Category A trust company business employee is suitably qualified if they:
(i) (ii) Have a minimum of five years relevant experience, AND
Hold a “Table 4” Qualification as detailed in the TCB professional qualifications guidance
note.

In addition, all Category A trust company business employees must complete 25 hours CPD per
annum.

Table 2

Category B Employee Role Indicators

› Compliance officer
› Responsible to a principal person (other than as a Category C Employee)
› Responsible for the activities of Category C Employees reporting to him/her
› Makes other than “significant” decisions (Refer Category A) in respect of trust
company business customer affairs

Overall Requirement and Suitably Qualified

In accordance with paragraph 3.3.1.5.2, 75% of Category A and B trust company business employees
cumulatively must be suitably qualified.

A Category B trust company business employee is suitably qualified if they comply with either
Scenario 1 or 2 below.

Scenario 1

(i) Have three years relevant experience, AND

(ii) Hold a “Table 4” Qualification as detailed in the TCB professional qualifications guidance
note.

Scenario 2

(i) Have five years relevant experience, AND
(ii) Hold a “Table 5” Qualification as detailed in the TCB professional qualifications guidance
note.

In addition, all Category B trust company business employees must complete 25 hours CPD per
annum.

Table 3

Category C Employee Role Indicators

› Work is supervised and reviewed directly by a Category A or B employee
› Performing a professional administrative (as distinct from clerical) role, but
dependent on superiors for decisions on technical matters or trust company
business decisions

Overall Requirement and Suitably Qualified

In accordance with paragraph 3.3.1.6, if less than 50% of the Category C trust company business
employees are either qualified with, or in the process of studying for, a “Table 4” or ”Table 5”
Qualification, as detailed in the TCB professional qualifications guidance note, then the JFSC must be
notified.

Category C suitably qualified criteria:

(i) (ii) No prescribed minimum relevant experience
Hold a “Table 5” Qualification as detailed in the TCB professional qualifications guidance
note
In addition, all Category C trust company business employees must complete 15 hours CPD per
annum.

The Second Schedule

Financial Resource Requirements

The following table sets out the methodology for calculating the Adjusted Net Liquid Assets and
Expenditure Requirement. The applicable definitions and guidance can be found in the JFSC
publication: Definitions and Guidance on the Adjusted Net Liquid Assets (ANLA) Calculations. In the
Resource Requirement Table the column headed “GN ref” highlights the relevant item in section 5 of
the guidance note.

Details regarding the frequency and scope of the calculation are set out in paragraph 5.1 of the Code
and sections 2 and 3 of the ANLA guidance note.

1. The ANLA must be maintained at a minimum level of 110% of the expenditure
requirement. A registered person is required to notify the JFSC if the ANLA falls below
the level of 130% and 110%.

The Third Schedule
Variances from the Code in respect of registered persons conducting a single class of trust company
business
The variances described in the Third Schedule do not apply to natural persons conducting a single
class of trust company business. The regulatory requirements for such natural persons are contained
in a Guidance Note entitled ”Natural Persons carrying on a single class of trust company business”.
Class Variance from the Code

(F)
Acting as a company formation agent, a partnership formation agent or a foundation formation agent;

If providing only Class F, Class I, Class J and/or Class K
services - then:
Regulatory span of control (paragraph 3.1.1.1) - minimum of “4 eyes”.

(I)
Acting or arranging for another person to act as secretary, alternate, assistant or deputy secretary of a company or a limited liability partnership; Employee qualifications & relevant experience
(Paragraph 0) - trust company business employees who might otherwise be required to hold a
qualification contained in “Table 4” of the TCB professional qualifications guidance note may, instead, hold, as a minimum, a qualification contained in “Table 5” of the TCB professional qualifications

guidance note.
(J)
Providing a registered office or business address for a company, a partnership or a foundation;
Capital - a minimum of £5,000 paid up share capital. The registered person must maintain a minimum net assets position of £5,000 at all times.

(K)
Providing an accommodation, correspondence or administrative address for a company, a partnership or a foundation or for any other person; 

PII - same calculation basis as paragraph 5.2.5 but with the minimum requirement scaled down to
£1,000,000 (one million pounds sterling) 

Class Variance from the Code (O)

If providing only Class O services then: Regulatory span of control (paragraph 3.1.1.1) - minimum of “2 eyes”, providing proper provision for succession exists.

(1) Providing a service specified in Article 2(4)(a), (e), (f) or (i) of the FS(J)L
(‘the specified service’) to a person who is
–
(a) An individual ordinarily resident in
Jersey; or

(b) A company incorporated under the
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 all the beneficial owners of which are –
(i) Individuals ordinarily resident in Jersey,

(ii) Companies incorporated under that Law the beneficial owners of which are all individuals ordinarily resident in Jersey, or

(iii) Both such individuals and companies, Where the provision of the specified service to that person by the provider does not require the provider to handle or control the person’s trust company business assets except as a necessary result of providing the specified service. Employee qualifications & relevant experience (Paragraph 0) - trust company business employees who might otherwise be required to hold a qualification contained in “Table 4” of the TCB professional qualifications guidance note may, instead, hold, as a minimum, a qualification contained in “Table 5” of the TCB professional qualifications guidance note.

Capital - a minimum of £5,000 paid up share capital. The registered person must maintain a minimum net assets position of £5,000 at all times. PII - same calculation basis as paragraph 5.2.5 but with the minimum requirement scaled down to £2,000,000 (two million pounds sterling).

Audit Requirement – waived.

Notes:
1. 2. 3. Other than these variances, the remainder of the provisions of the Code applies.
These variances are only available upon written application to the JFSC by the
registered person. 

The JFSC would not ordinarily anticipate recognising such variances where the applicant is a participating member of an affiliation, unless all members of the affiliation were eligible for similar variances.

Registered persons that only conduct one or more of the classes of trust company business listed in the Third Schedule are prevented from holding or controlling customer assets.

The Fourth Schedule

Table of Consents

The following table summarises those variances which are specifically referred to in the Code as
being available, on application in writing, from the JFSC.

Control and Risk Management
Introduction:
Power exercised and scope (paragraph 5 on page 7) Consent Persons registered to conduct a single class of trust company business may, on written application, be permitted to enjoy amended requirements in respect of certain sections of the Code as set out in the Third Schedule.

3.3.3 Consent Where a registered person wishes to request a variance to the professional qualifications requirements to recognise an alternative qualification, such a request must:
› Be made in writing;
› Include a description of the role of the individual;
› Include an explanation as to why the registered person considers the alternative qualification to be appropriate for that trust company business employee; and

› Includes confirmation that a copy of the syllabus studied or equivalent is available to the JFSC on request.

Financial Resources

5.1.3 Consent Where a registered person is a 100% subsidiary of a Jersey incorporated company registered to carry on deposit-taking business it may apply to the JFSC, in writing, for a variance
(exemption) from completing the ANLA calculation. Such a variance will only be considered if the deposit-taker provides a letter of undertaking, acceptable to the JFSC, in respect of providing financial support to the trust company.

5.1.9 Consent The JFSC may, on written application by a registered person, consider a variance to the notification obligation as stated in

5.1.8.1.

5.1.10 Consent Where a registered person wishes to make an application for a variation to the treatment of assets, liabilities and/or expenditure items in the ANLA calculation this must be made in writing to the JFSC

Financial Resources

5.1.11 Consent On submission of a written request, by the registered person, the JFSC will consider granting consent to exclude a long term subordinated loan as a liability within the ANLA calculation. Any request must be accompanied by a signed consent request checklist and such consent is only likely to be granted where:

› The subordinated loan is drawn up in accordance with the JFSC’s proforma Subordinated Loan Agreement; and
› The subordinated loan is made by an approved lender.

5.2.11 Consent A registered person that is ceasing to conduct a class of financial service business is required to arrange for appropriate “run off” PII cover in respect of claims arising from past acts or omissions.

The level of such cover will require the JFSC’s consent as part of a cessation of business plan.
i Registered person, principal person and key person are defined in Article 1 of the FS(J)L and carry the
same meaning in the Code.
ii iii Formerly the sensitive activities policy.
The registered person must exercise appropriate judgement to include any items here that may not be
covered by the defined categories of illiquid asset adjustment but would be considered to be illiquid.

